well we start with breaking developments
on the Israel Gaza war in the last hour
or so the United Nations has said that
it it has been told by the Israeli
military that more than a million
Palestinians must leave the northern
Gaza Strip within the next 2 24 hours in
a statement the UN spokesman Stefan duar
said that the United Nations considers
it impossible for such a movement to
take place without devastating
humanitarian in consequences the United
Nations strongly appeals for any such
order if confirmed to be rescinded
avoiding what could transform what's
already a tragedy into a into a
calamitous
situation well this is the scene live in
Gaza where it has just turned 7:00 in
the morning the United Nations said that
the order by the Israeli military also
applies to all of its staff and those
sheltered in in un facilities including
schools Health Centers and Clinics there
and a Hamas official quoted by the
Reuters news agency said that the
relocation warning from Israel was fake
propaganda let's give you a sense of the
geography in Gaza this is a map of
Israel where you can see Gaza and the
West Bank marked what the Israeli
military is saying is that everyone
living in Northern Gaza should really
locate to the southern end in the next
24 hours that's more than a million
people around half of the population of
the entire Gaza
Strip well let's uh speak now to uh my
colleague from BBC Arabic s shahata um
what do you make side of what we've
heard in the last hour from the United
Nations from Israel via the United
Nations it sounds as if things could be
escalating uh in the next 24 hours or so
it looks like that because if you look
at the density of the population in Gaza
2 million on living on 88 square miles
uh so it's about 21,000 be uh square
miles so to move half of them to another
part this will be a crisis is going to
have like as the United Nation mention
uh humanitarian consequence for that I
think Israel doing that in order to make
it easier for the ground assault so it
makes because there is many times
hundreds of thousand of reservist of
Israeli troops came to join from
different plac in the world and so
Israel pushing for that and all uh you
know some military inside Israel
supporting that saying we cannot destroy
Hamas without the ground assault so I
think Israel trying to put pressure on
the people on Gaza to move in order to
avoid any casual qualities uh because
there is many people dying it's more
than 1,500 people and more than like
5,000 injured uh beside that the
blockade like no food no electricity so
all of that human think it's making the
picture is gloomy and it will put
pressure on other countries especially
on blank uh on America and blankin in
his visit to Jordan to do something in
order to diffuse that because I think it
will make re might make reaction from
parties which Israel try and America to
not to be involved in this conflict like
hisbah or Iran so a pretty tense 24
hours obviously um ahead um do stay with
us though for the moment s because I
want to cross over to to Gaza now and
speak to uh Nala shawa who's the
regional country relations manager uh
for oxfarm in Gaza she's currently one
of the 1.1 million residents of Gaza
who've been told to leave uh but by
Israel uh thank you very much for making
the time to talk to us M shawa um can I
get your reaction on the ground to this
uh call uh from Israel for people to
evacuate uh Northern Gaza how how
feasible is it even to do it within the
deadline that's been
set uh hi uh first of all we're there's
so much um chaos in in in Gaza uh we
managed to leave that uh at like 4:30
a.m. um we are about um um 15 people
here we moved to another location South
and um we we think I mean basically now
asking this question uh is clearly puts
um puts the the reminder that Israel can
do whatever whatever it wants and uh
nobody can stop it obviously so the
arrogance of of Israel is has been like
that for for decades so obviously now
it's happening again and it's um simply
on the news and everyone is watching
while this another catastrophe is
actually taking place right now I know
everyone is in a total panic and
everyone is is leaving it's talk about
kids elderly everyone the roads are
being bombed while we were traveling now
there is bombing I'm smelling smoke
what is this madness we of
course Gaza and Gaza City to the South
what what what is it what is the plan
and and are we going to come back to any
of our homes when we were leaving we
were like just looking at things as if
we're not going to see them again we
have of course n seen n we have seen of
course the the the devastating pictur is
coming out uh of Gaza we know that
hospitals are running out of crucial
supplies uh electricity has been cussed
to uh to many parts of of the area and
if this uh evacuation uh order is to be
is to be followed H how feasible is it
how possible is
it of course it's not feasible and of
course you'll have hundreds if not more
of casualties and you'll have
destruction and then what Bravo Israel
yeah that's great
what what is it that it's fighting
here what do you think the timing of
this order um says about the Israeli
military's uh approach to protecting
civilians yeah moving I don't know one
million people um to uh to travel to the
to the South during 1 million you know
you you understand you understand the
figure you're not talking about
neighborhood so Israel started with a
house with a building and with the
neighborhood just three days ago and
yesterday and the the days before now
it's like an
entire region of of the god STP like
like maybe third or more of the godess
strip area of course it's not feasable
but Israel can do whatever they want
nobody's stopping
them no matter how how I scream on the
TV or how angry people are around the
world it's not going to make any
difference right because we are living
by these double
standards decade after decade double
standard we are not seen as humans
enough we're not human enough that's it
that's a fact of
life as we're listening to you Nala
we're we're seeing pictures coming in of
uh uh fresh rocket fire uh what appears
to be fresh rocket fire uh over Gaza um
the situation there obviously incredibly
unimaginably uh difficult for you and uh
and others who are living there what's
your message to uh the world leaders
Anthony blinkin the uh us uh secretary
of state who's in the in the region
right now uh trying to to find some kind
of a a diplomatic solution what's your
message uh to him and
others to stop this
madness and what I just mentioned
stop living and practicing and imposing
these double standards because we are
also
people reminder we have been under
occupation for 70 plus
years we are people and we are here we
have been
here we are suffering before October 7th
Palestinians in Gaza and in the West
Bank Israel before before October 7th
was living a normal life not worrying
about anything before October 7th it was
not the same case for
Palestinians you should be aware of that
and they are aware that's why I'm not
sure I even want to say that passage to
them do they really
bother what are you going to do now Nala
you're involved obviously in the uh
humanitarian situation there
uh we've had this uh fresh warning
coming from the Israeli military just in
the last hour or so uh how is it going
to change your response today is it
going to change uh your the work you're
going to be doing
today the work that uh we are supposed
to be doing is simply not feasible and
not possible with the extent of
Destruction with that that there is no
uh no uh ceasefire there is no uh
humanitarian Corridor there is nothing
nothing is is is even discussed or or or
suggested we just hear it in in in the
media in discussions that that doesn't
allow for any kind of response so people
are simply suffering and will continue
to suffer in displacement in the areas
they are in in the schools or in the
streets now it's going to be everywhere
not only in whatever designated schools
it's going to be everywhere and yes we
are hearing about no water no enough
food uh all all all these
things now I bringing with me now to
this place some uh some water and some
food maybe for a couple of days God
knows until when are we going to be here
here
for okay and I am in a much better
position than many others so no talking
about response nobody is able to do
anything
Nyla shaer um we thank you for joining
us we thank you for giving us uh your
time and wish you all the best for uh
what's ahead of you uh in the days ahead
thank you for joining us today on BBC
news thank